# Week 3 & 4 Homework: AI-Assisted Career Fair Prep 

**Happy Career Fair week**! In honor of the Fair, and recognizing that one of your main goals is to get an internship or a job, we're going to apply your AI skills to the job hunt this week. This assignment is a collab between CSSE and Career Services on the ethical and appropriate use of AI in the job search process. Shoutout to Pam for her ideas and her help! This assignment is required for this class, but the secret purpose is to help you in your job search!

You probably know that many companies use Applicant Tracking Systems (ATS) that use AI to screen resumes. If you are building a resume, best practices are: (1) use MS Word, not Google docs, (2) use a simplified format that exports to a pdf that AI can parse easily (Career Services has [examples](https://rosehulman.sharepoint.com/sites/Career/SitePages/Job-Search-Sites.aspx)), and (3) if you use AI to help write your resume, only use it for ideas, not the exact final text. **ATS will reject AI-generated resumes**. If you submit a resume, and it is rejected right away (like within 24 hours), that's a sign it was auto-rejected by AI and needs more work - ask Career Services for help!

There are 3 parts to this assignment:

1. **Resume Headline**. The best practice is to include a "headline" at the top of your resume that showcases your main strengths. Prompt an AI tool to "generate 5-10 headlines from the following resume" and then add to the prompt the **content** of the resume only, **not the personal info**, both for the sake of your privacy and because it's not relevant here. Use the AI response as inspiration to write your own headline that you think is best for your resume. (Our guess is that you'll use some content from the AI-suggested headlines, but will combine 2-3 of them or at least adjust the wording of one). **Submission**: include the AI's suggested headlines and the final headline you wrote for your resume.

2. **Resume Bullet Points**. Making your bullet points impactful can be hard. You worked as a pool lifeguard last summer - certainly there are transferrable skills there, but which? AI can help. Pass your bullet points into AI and prompt it to rewrite them to be more editorial, focusing on transferable skills and keywords. Use the response for ideas on how to rewrite them. **Submission**: pick 2-3 bullet points and submit the "before", the "AI-suggested", and the "after" versions. 

3. **Companies of Interest Summary**. There are a lot of companies at the Career Fair, and many of them do hire CSSEs, but not all. It's important to go in with a plan. This folder includes a CSV file that has all of the companies that will be at this Fall's Career Fair. Your first goal is to create a shortened list of all companies that you're interested in. First, zero-shot a prompt to get a list of companies that you are interested in (you can decide what "interested in" means). Evalute the response and see if it seems accurate based on what's actually in the CSV (often LLMs will stop reporting after a few items, so make sure _all_ your preferences are in the list. Next, choosing a prompting strategy from this page: [https://www.promptingguide.ai/techniques] and update your prompt using that strategy to get a better list of all you preferences. **Submission** include your prompts and the responses, then answer the following for this question: a) How well did the zero-shot prompt work? Did it find all of your preferred companies? 2) Did your chosen strategy work better on the second attempt? If it did, why do you think that was? If it didn't, what do you think the problem was and is there another strategy you would try instead?

4. **Companies of Interest Formatted List**: What if you wanted to bring this data into another system for reuse? Take your best perfoming prompt from step 3 and update it to output the information you want about a company in a JSON format. It should include at least the Company Name, if they're hiring full-time, interns, or both, and any additional information that you would find helpful. The goal is to get output in a _valid_ JSON format. The key here is to be very specific about the output format when prompting the LLM. **Submission**: Include you final prompt and the output that you got from the LLM, then answer this: How well did the JSON conversion work? Did you always get a valid JSON structure back? Did it work better for some companies than others?

4. **Company-specific Interview Prep**. Some say you should customize your resume for each company of interest. That would be a lot of work! One impactful way to customize, though, is to prepare some custom questions for a short interview with each of the companies at the Career Fair that you'd like to meet. You'll want to start with your 30-second elevator pitch for yourself. But what questions should you ask them to show your interest? And what questions from them should you be ready to answer? Use AI to prepare. For each company, prompt it with, "I'm interviewing at **(company)** for a position in **(position)**. First, give me a 1 paragraph summary of the company. Then provide 3-5 insightful questions that would show my interest in the company and cause me to stand out as an applicant. Then give 3-5 questions that I could expect to be asked in the interview." Preparing like this will help you to guide the interview to your strengths. **Submission**: give the AI's full response for 1 company. Then respond to the response - how did it do? Was it helpful? Anything you would change? (If you are actaully job hunting, you will want to do this for multiple companies, but you only need to submit one. If you need help developing a list, use [this resource](https://rosehulman-my.sharepoint.com/:x:/g/personal/klaas_rose-hulman_edu/ERSOnjt23bZLrrONxfovTVMB3UPPBkKredpJXElZ0-_P5Q?rtime=F0RsVp363Ug) that Career Services has developed - it's easier to use than Handshake. 

Remember that Career Services' goal is to help you to get a job. Use the resources they provide. 

Finally, AI can help you prepare, but it can't interact with the interviewer for you - that's still your job and your character (things like honesty, courage, respect, and enthusiasm) still matter a ton! **Happy job searching!** 
